# Honeysat Yamcs Integration (CCSDS Stack)

## Run
Run the following command in root directory of the project:
```bash
docker compose --file docker-compose-ccsds.yaml up
```

This command automatically builds necessary docker images containing different modules of the project.

### Reachability Configuration
By default, satellite is set to be always visible for testing purposes. You can disable this feature, and thus allow the telecommands reach the satellite only when it is really reachable, by *commenting out* this line in `docker-compose.yaml`:
```yaml
      ALWAYS_REACHABLE: "1"
```

## User's Point of View
After running the project, the dashboard web interface will be accessible on `http://localhost:8090`. This is the only interface exposed from the whole system, and the attacker is supposed to interact with this dashboard.

There are by default two users in the system:
```
username: root
password: sCvuyXIvEtC3Meu0

username: administrator
password: Admin123
```

The first user is only used by the real owners of the project. Therefore, it has a strong password.
The second user is the user that we expect the attacker tries to login to. That is the reason behind its simple password.
This user has limited access to the dashboard. Otherwise they will be able to escalate their privileges because Yamcs is not designed to handle untrusted users.

The attacker's user has the following permissions:
1. Observe the current parameters of the system.
1. Send new telecommands to the satellite, track their acknowledgements, and view the history of the sent telecommands.
1. View the previous telemetry packets as well as the new ones.

## Maintainer's Point of View
If the attacker logins into the system and sends telecommands, these events will be logged into the MongoDB container. In the default setup, this is the only way to observe the attackers' interactions with the system.

One can additionally setup a reverse proxy or a network traffic dumping tool to observe attackers' interactions in more details.

### Telecommands/Telemetries Flow
The main three modules of the project are chained together:
1. Yamcs Dashboard
1. RCCN Wrapper
1. Honeysat

Every telecommand initiated by the users in Yamcs dashboard is serialized and forwarded to the RCCN wrapper through UDP channels.
RCCN Wrapper parses the request and transforms it into the appropriate ZeroMQ message and sends it to Honeysat's ZeroMQ interface.
In this way, the telecommand reaches the Honeysat and a telemetry packet is generated if it is necessary.

In a similar way, the telemtry packet generated by Honeysat is returned to RCCN Wrapper as the response to the ZeroMQ request.
RCCN Wrapper parses the packet and serializes it to send it to Yamcs backend over the configured UDP channel.
Eventually, Yamcs receives the telemetry packet and if necessary, updates the satellite's parameters (e.g. Temperature, Voltage, etc.) in its database.

Yamcs dashbaord provides interfaces both for observing the exact telecommand/telemetry packets and parameters values.

## Services Description

### Yamcs Instance
Yamcs is an open-source mission control system. It provides a web-based dashboard to send telecommands to the satellite and parse telemetries returned from the (simulated) satellite. It also handles user management and the users' permissions.

The source code for the Yamcs framework is accessible in `projects/yamcs/yamcs`. Also, the dashboard developed specifically for Honeysat on top of Yamcs framework is accessible in `projects/yamcs/yamcs-instance` directory.

### Honeysat API
This module, accessible in `projects/honeysat-api`, is the core component of the project and implements the satellite simulation logic.
This module logs the interactions into the MongoDB container.

### RCCN Wrapper
Yamcs has been previously integrated with Raccoon OS. In order to integrate Yamcs with Honeysat with the least effort, a Raccoon userspace application has been developed. This software acts as a proxy between Yamcs and Honeysat. The source code can be accessed in `projects/raccoon-wrapper/src/rccn_usr_honeysat_app`.
